hello missal staff are continuing to
his series play electrostatic nation already
talked about contact electrification
the basic idea of upgrading to the
contact is as follows 1 as we say
that we take a body here for
example a people and these people have a
certain electrical charge for example
positive whatever be may be
positive may be negative
what happens is that equal loads
repel such loads for example
positive people do not want to stay
Much to God in this body.
if I take another body, for example
a potato that something else and I
here in this people who are going to
the following happens
these positive charges are attracting
negative charges for example some
electrons that this potato finally not
be stolen by the people what will
happen is that now this potato month
car also positive the guys do not want
to be mounted on a very sloping body
and 11 of the opportunity opportunities pass
the two glasses are not distributed
between the two
so what happens then the basic idea
of production for contact is precisely
this to have a body loaded slope
in him another body that at first was
in another now the two bodies do not
be loaded
they will always end up with loads of
same sign ta loads ends with a
always ends with the same sign not
necessarily the same value is not
crime in the legislation by friction
counter signs and even value
here is the sign and not
necessarily the same value
the only thing I can tell
principle of use by contact with
the two bodies will end up with the same
Sign you have to be much more details
some situations to mainly
When we talk about spheres
have two cases you have to
know the first most common case when
we talk ball with all the
same size is what's going to happen here
is the following if you liked the
spheres of the same size then as
they are the same they do not have because the load
prefer one port than the other is
the total load is distributed equally
so here they will end with
load of the same value also divides
also then say say that
I have a ball when I'm here to
has a certain load for example but
four settlers and this one was neutral
that is, they have charge 0
When I do not like it, it goes.
that the total load is divided
between them
in this case the total load is 4 of this
0 of this
the total load is four more if more
four times divide part for this
part ball seems to split equally
stay two more here both of us here then
each sphere has a
the total load on two that's because I
I pressed two at the same time I had
a coast of the 3 at the same time would have
one third in each and so it goes
the total load is divided equally
Note that I told you that I had to
touch three at the same time do not
Here's another example here.
may be that they start in two with
tsee electric charge for example had
one here with a load of money I do not know
- 2 asses and another here a load of your
one more thing when I touch them
the total load and divides equally
any total charge in this case I have
two in one and one in the other to
total charge is - 1 - 1 is half to
each one
then it will be minus 0.5 at that minus
0.5 lance note that both ends
with the same signal load is on and if they
not of the same judicial size
different sizes
What happens is that for example let's
suppose I started here with this
sphere with negative charge and this one
it was neutral
when I touched aoas these electrons here
They do not want to be mounted on this body.
them ounces
looks at both spheres but the question is
that these electrons and repellents that he
stayed as far away as they can from the other
they will be further apart in the body
greater than in the smaller body
then these loads prefer to stay in that
body than in that ranking
in this case the total load does not
whether video also gets more
most're then the larger body gets the
larger wheel face
then in this case the 15 here will stay with
a burden which is here with a load
that two I can say with certainty that
that two is greater in kim mode than one
load does not divide even more
load on the larger base body the more the
will be proportional to the radius of the
people will hardly appear questions
accounts per exercise because I want to
say ko raya distance from the center to the
border right
if for example this sphere has double
the size of this one means that this
final load on this sphere will be double
of cargo in this one but always they
end with same-signal loads
emphasizing that this is a
for further observation is in the
use by contacts with some
end with different value loads as
we saw their different sizes
final values will be different
but it always ends with the same
signal and with the same electrical potential the
which is the electric power had more to
People but for the moment only left this
Finally this annotation information that okay
even if the load values are
different the electrical potential of each
year attracts more people that will be
Like your worthy comment
to do is what happens for
example does an update to the
contact with the earth as well as
Let's say that I have here in a
little ball has a positive charge
one thing i can do is
next to say that here is the show
then here is the earth the earth
planet earth is a sun at last one
picture of dirt in the mall
I 'm going to connect this planet in the
earth through a conducting wire, which
I wish this is just a movie made of some
material that lets electrons rise
scene
this thread here I'm actually
touching this body on the ground and
update for the contact, I am
making contact through the film and not
directly but the idea is the same
As I said when I have coast.
bodies of different sizes
loads will spread through the
two but prefer to stay in the larger body
when he found the body on earth to
people are even so much bigger than they really are
all guys will prefer to stay in
what will happen is that this
body will end up being practically
neutral charges go to land
in this case these positive charges
would be attracting negative electrons that
going up the film allows movement
do not leave the earth until this guy here
in the end stay neutral from nothing is not it
In a way, what you're doing is just
one to electrification by contact
athlete is so much bigger that he can practically
say that all final charge is right
then the original body neutral cable
if you were negative the reasoning
is the same solectron had descended to the
instead of climbing again touching a
body loaded up to this body is k there
inside
then're right for this time is very
thanks for listening
the contact organization tried to coast
of bodies the charges spread through
they
always ends the same signal if you have the
same size for the same value and
Different sizes at different time from
bigger became more expensive and until the next
thank you very much